[MUSIC]
>> Jafara Husain: So I think we left off
yesterday with some pretty intense code
written to some pretty intense expressions
here to calculate data to eventually,
basically create the data that we want,
the collections we want from some
data structure, more and
more collections that we have.
And so I believe we left off
on question 24 which was,
retrieve each of the video ID, title,
middle interesting moment in smallest
boxart of every video nested
in all of these movie list.
So the instant cue, new releases,
each one contains videos array and
each one of the videos
contains two collections.
And we found out that we could make
that happen by using zip, particularly,
I wanna recall that zip is a great
operator to use if you've got two array,
two collections basically
at the same time.
So you've got access to two collections.
You wanna have them both in scope.
One item from each collection and
scope at the same time.
That's when you use ZIP, right?
Whereas map, you use if you want to,
where there's an order dependent.
So I need to map over all of the video
lists before I can retrieve all of
the videos inside because
they're hierarchical, right?
And so
I would use map in terms of order, so
maps a way of sort of enforcing order
of things in an interesting way, right?
You're sort of saying hey,
I wanna map over all the video lists and
then map over all of
the videos inside of it.
Whereas, in this case we sense a video
has both interesting moments and box
starts at a parallel, they're parallel,
they're sort of siblings in the tree.
We have access to both of
them at the same time.
Zip is a great way of getting both
of them in scope simultaneously,
because zip's function
takes 2 arguments or
actually technically the number of
arguments that you pass to arrays, right?
So our implementation of zip, as I
mentioned yesterday just takes two arrays.
But you could see an implementation
of zip it takes n arrays and
then a function that takes n arguments.
So it's when you wanted sort of process
two collections, not quite in parallel in
this in the sense of parallelism
because it's JavaScript, right?
But effectively and
that's the way to think about it, as if
you're doing them both at the same time.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Jafara Husain: Sorry.
>> Speaker 2: Bump the font.
>> Jafara Husain: Bump the fan, okay.
So, how many people in the room,
I'm curious, have experience with SQL?
Quite a few.
I think we've got a bit of
an enterprisy crowd here which is good.
Because, has anybody noticed
any similarity between SQL and
what we've been doing here?
>> Speaker 3: Joins.
>> Jafara Husain: Joins.
Interesting.
Let's take a look at SQL and let's, even
though it has a very different syntax,
let's compare it to what
we've been doing this far.
So, let's say I had a bunch of titles or
excuse me a bunch of lists and
a bunch of videos, and
they were much like in a SQL database
bound together by identifier, by ID.
So let's say we had a list table.
>> Jafara Husain: So this is list.
And let's see it has an ID field and
a name field, and
then we have a videos table and
it has a ID, it also has a listid
field
>> Jafara Husain: And it has a name.
And so here's an example.
>> Jafara Husain: So
we have a video inside of horror.
>> Jafara Husain: It's actually a movie
I just saw yesterday on Netflix,
very good by the way.
>> Jafara Husain: And
this one is in thrillers.
>> Jafara Husain: So
we can see that in relational databases,
information is actually,
it's kinda interesting,
the difference between trees and
relational databases.
Can you please tell me what the difference
in hierarchical structures and
relational databases are?
How do they organize
information differently?
There's one very key obvious difference.
In the hierarchical system, parents
contain references to children, right?
If you look at the previous examples,
right, we had thrillers and
they had a videos collection,
and within that, we had videos.
Here, it's the other way around.
Videos actually have
a references to their parent.
Notice the listid there?
Sp hierarchical and relational systems
are swapped in that particular way.
Now, we use SQL to compose
together relational systems.
So, let's say I wanted to get all of
the names of all the videos in all
the lists, right?
Or actually for every video I wanted to
get both the list name and the video name,
so I wanted to know if it's Die Hard,
I wanna know what list it's inside of.
I'm gonna write a little SQL, here so
I apologize for those you don't know SQL,
but it's really instructive for
those people out there who do know SQL.
And it's gonna demonstrate
the similarity between SQL, for
anybody out there who know sequel.
And what we've been doing today because
the truth is all the concepts we've
been learning map, filter,
reduce merge, zip, all the same
as the concepts that are in SQL.
So I wanna make that, I want to take
a little time to make that, that,
connection in your mind
if you already know SQL.
So, I'm gonna select the videos.name and
lists.name FROM
>> Jafara Husain: Video,
it's been a while since my
>> Jafara Husain: My SQLs.
It's been a while [LAUGH] from videos.
>> Jafara Husain: And there's a where
clause and I basically have to link up
these things, so
>> Jafara Husain: video.id
is equal to listid.
>> Jafara Husain: Did I do that right?
>> Jafara Husain: Bump this
font size down just a smidge.
>> Jafara Husain: So,
what we're doing here is a join, right?
We're sort of saying,
hey I've got these two list and
they're connected by ID, right?
And we're sort of linking up by ID.
Now, I'm gonna write the same
thing in JavaScript.
And we'll see what it looks like.
>> Jafara Husain: So for every map,
we're gonna go through each list and for
every video that happens
to be in that list.
>> Jafara Husain: We are going to map and
grab the name of the video
>> Jafara Husain: And
the name of the list.
>> Jafara Husain: Can't forget we need
parentheses when we use our functions and
JSON on the right hand side.
>> Jafara Husain: [INAUDIBLE]
down just a bit.
>> Jafara Husain: And
how many dimensions is this collection?
>> Jafara Husain: How deep
are we in the rabbit hole here?
>> Speaker 4: Two.
>> Jafara Husain: Two, right?.
Because within each list, for
each list, we're returning in the list
collection, we're returning another array.
Because that's what filter returns.
So, all we need to do
is apply one concatAll.
>> Jafara Husain: And
now we're gonna have videoNames and
ListNames
>> Jafara Husain: Is
it clear why these two
things are the same thing?
Cuz SQL is just sugar.
It gives you a lot of syntactic sugar for
doing precisely this.
>> Jafara Husain: I think [INAUDIBLE]
SQL might be off a little bit.
It's been awhile since I've done SQL here.
Maybe you SQL experts out there
can tell me if I'm wrong I
want to alias the the item in
the table there to video and list.
>> Jafara Husain: So I'm just wanna make
the connection between map and select,
filter and where, and
these two nested FROMs can be thought
of as a map nested within a map.
Does that makes sense?
We're going over,
for every item in one list, we're going
over every item in the other list.
So we go over the first list, we go
over all the videos and we check to see
which one, if that particular video is in
that list by checking it's the ID, right?
And, so as we're sort of just going
over all the possibilities and
looking at the idea.
Now this is not actually the most
efficient way to do a join, in SQL, right?
You'd want to actually use a join operator
to do it more efficiently than this, but
that's effectively what we're
doing when we do this example.